---
layout: post
title:  Coffee Log 02
tags:
  - coffee
categories:
  - coffee-log
---

Let's get to it. Today I used the same beans as yesterday, [Trader Joe's Joe<i
class="fa fa-external-link"></i>][joe]{:target="_blank"} medium roast coffee
grounds, but a little bit less than yesterday; I left maybe a half centimeter
between the top of the grounds and the lip of the filter compartment.

<!-- MORE -->

In addition to using less grounds today, I also brewed the coffee with the lid
of the Express open. This seemed to make the water heat up significantly
slower. After 8 minutes of no coffee, I turned the heat up on the stove from 4
to 6, at which point it only took a few moments for my beautiful brown brew to
start pouring forth.

At about 85% full, there was a sudden explosion of coffee from the spout in the
top chamber, spilling coffee all over the stove and signalling to me that the
brew was ready. All told, it took just about 9 minutes exactly to go from stove
on to coffee in mug.

## Review

The aroma today is certainly much milder than yesterday. I can say for sure
whether that's because of the slightly smaller amount of grounds I used, or
because of my quicker reaction taking the coffee off the heat, or both. I can
also taste the bitterness has taken a back seat to the other flavors in the
coffee, especially compared to yesterday. I'm actually a little shocked at how
different it tastes from yesterday's cup. I have a hunch it must have been the
slower heat up time (this brew spent 3 and a half minutes more on the stove).

I'd give this cup a **6.25**/10. A definite step up from yesterday's aggressive
bitterness, but perhaps swinging to far in the opposite direction, towards
mildness. There also seemed to be less sludge at the bottom of the mug. In
fact, it was hardly sludge at all, more just dusty fine grounds.

## Thoughts for Tomorrow

I'm really interested in isolating which tweak was primarily responsible for
the reduction in bitterness today: using slightly less grounds, or letting the
water heat up longer by leaving the lid open. So tomorrow I'm going to use the
same amount of grounds as today, but brew with the lid closed and see what
happens.

[joe]: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B01EM6Z1M4
