---
layout: post
title:  Coffee Log 07
tags:
  - coffee
categories:
  - coffee-log
---

Welcome to the 1-week anniversary edition of the Coffee Log. Our brew has come
a long way during these past 7 days, with daily ratings gradually climbing and
brew times steadily falling.

<!-- MORE -->

Today is no exception to that trend.

Continuing our exploration of temperature, today's brew sat on a burner set to
6 (compared to yesterday's 5 and the prior days' 4). Time to drip was a snappy
3:02" and after 3:33", I was pouring my cup.

## Review

This cup of coffee shares a lot of qualities with yesterday's, but for some
reason I don't find myself getting excited about the deliciousness in the same
way. Maybe I'm a little extra tired and can't muster the enthusiasm, or maybe
the cup turned out a little more bitter, with the fun subtle flavors more
suppressed.

Overall though, not bad, still much better than anything I brewed at burner
setting 4, so I'll give this one a pretty solid rating of **7.2**/10.

## Thoughts for Tomorrow

Given the only mild decline in today's rating relative to yesterday, I'm
interested in continuing this investigation of temperature. Tomorrow, I'll set
the burner to 7 and see what happens. I suspect that this is the highest I'll
go, but I could be wrong.

Another more general though moving forward is that I'd like to be a little
stricter in my control variables, particularly in grounds volume. I've been
eyeballing it every day now, and while I like to think I'm pretty consistent,
there's no real reason for me to leave it up to chance.

I had this thought when I realized that a slightly higher grounds volume could
have been the cause of the slight extra bitterness today (rather than the
temperature alone). However, since the volume hasn't been strictly controlled,
I can't say for sure. Because of this, I might re-run the grounds volume
investigation using actual, quantified volumes, *then* continue on with other
parameters once the ideal volume is identified.
