---
layout: post
title:  Coffee Log 13
tags:
  - coffee
categories:
  - coffee-log
---

Welcome to the weekend edition of *Coffee Log&trade;*. It's day 5 of the
rigorous grounds investigation, and today we've hit a new high in volume: 4.3
Tbsp, measured as 4 Tbsp, 1 tspn. I was caught off guard by the sub-4' time to
drip, so didn't get an exact measure, though the top chamber was full by 4:10".

<!-- MORE -->

## Review

Today I was able to enjoy a boldly flavorful cup with an aroma to match. And,
unlike past experience with mostly full filters (which coincided with lower
brew temperatures), this mug was good to the last drop.

More so than the past couple days, I do feel the stronger, slightly more acidic
aftertaste in the top of my throat, which makes me feel like we're pushing this
to the edge of enjoyability. **7.5**/10.

## Thoughts for Tomorrow

I'd like to try and find the tipping point where bold brew gives way to acidic
sludge, so I'm going to try adding one more teaspoon of grounds to the mix
tomorrow, bringing the total volume to 4.7 Tbsp.

At this point, if the coffee is no longer tasty, I'll consider it a wrap on the
grounds volume investigation, and if not (which I suspect is unlikely) we'll
just keep adding more grounds (though there won't be much room in left in the
filter before long). If the investigation wraps before I finish the Arabica,
I'll simply finish off the bag with whatever my highest-rated parameters were
and get back to you when I pick a new roast.
