---
layout: post
title:  Coffee Log 15
tags:
  - coffee
categories:
  - coffee-log
---

Today I continued the plan the I postponed yesterday and made a single cup of
coffee with almost 5 tablespoons (4.7 to be exact) of coffee grounds. It was a
stiff brew, but not necessarily in a bad way. The time to drip was 4:16" and
the time to completion was 4:46".

<!-- MORE -->

## Review

Today was the first time in a while my coffee had a notably strong, even
aggressive aroma. Where I feel it broke the pattern was that the bitterness of
the sips that followed was not overwhelming (though it was even more noticeable
than the past few days). What's more is that the second half of the cup did not
have that dreadful sourness that often follows up a stronger brew.

That being said, now that the cup is finished, I can still taste some of the
bitter remnants in the corners of my mouth, which tells me we might have
reached the far end of the grounds volume spectrum. By my estimate, the filter
could probably hold the better part of another tablespoon, but I don't think we
need to find out what will happen if we fill it up that much.

Like I said, the coffee was strong, enjoyable, but just over the line in terms
of bitterness. **7**/10.

## Thoughts for Tomorrow

As I was cramming the filter full of grounds this morning, I finally read the
packaging of my medium roast grounds, which recommended using *2* tablespoons
of grounds per 8oz. of coffee. I'm pretty sure I have an 8oz. mug, so by T
Joe's recommendation, I've been *way* overdoing it for days. Tomorrow, I'll try
the 2-Tbsp recommendation, and if it ends up being watery swill, at least we'll
know.
