---
layout: post
title:  Coffee Log 20
tags:
  - coffee
categories:
  - coffee-log
---

Exciting changes are afoot for the Coffee Log. Starting this past Saturday,
I've been using my brand new Trader Joe's *light roast* Arabica grounds. I was
expecting to be able to make a direct comparison to the medium roast and
proclaim definitively that I prefer one to the other, but to be honest, the
flavor profiles of these two roasts are so different, it's apples and oranges.

<!-- MORE -->

This mornings brew was comprised of 3.3 Tbsp of the new light roast grounds,
burner set to 5 and Express lid open. Time to drip was a slightly slower than
average 3:34" and time to completion was 3:54". (I'll add that today was one of
my more precise time measurements; sometimes, I'll be looking away when the
drip starts, or I'll stop the timer late because I'm preoccupied containing the
explosion, but today I hit both marks pretty much right on the money).

## Review

When I took my very first sip of the light roast on Saturday (9/22, apologies
for the absence, I had a busy weekend) I had an audible reaction to sheer
difference in the flavor, compared to the medium roast. Now that my
expectations have been adjusted, I no longer have this reaction externally, but
still feel a muted form of it internally.

The aroma of this light roast doesn't immediately betray the brighter, almost
fruitier body that your first sips will reveal. What the light roast lacks in
deep, nutty tones, it makes up for in a diverse array of highlights which
really put the top of your palette to work.

It's pretty hard for me to pin down where on the numerical scale I put this
coffee. Nonetheless, I'll do it, for science. If nothing else, this cup has got
me excited to fine-tune my light brewing game, and see the differences in which
parameters most help this roast to shine. **6.8**/10.

## Thoughts for Tomorrow

I ended up with a little too much bitterness in the final sips of the cup, so
I'm going to check and see tomorrow how reducing the grounds volume goes. Like
before, I'll make steps in 1-tspn increments, putting me at 3 Tbsp even
tomorrow.
