---
layout: post
title:  Coffee Log 27
tags:
  - coffee
categories:
  - coffee-log
---

Welcome back to the coffee log. My process has developed a pretty steady
holding pattern, so there hasn't been a lot to report lately. However, I've
finally finished my canister of pumpkin spice coffee, and have moved on to the
[dark roast<i class="fa fa-external-link"></i>][dark roast]{:target="_blank"}.

[dark roast]: https://www.amazon.com/Trader-Joes-Dark-Coffee/dp/B008IQXYJC

<!-- MORE -->

I'm a little rusty, so I didn't capture the time to drip, but the whole process
was done inside of 3:45". An interesting note is the pace that the finished
coffee was pushed into the top filter; the dark roast grounds are noticeably
finer than the pumpkin spice (which was a medium-dark roast) and the brew seems
to bubble up much slower (and less explosively at the end).

I eye-balled a ~90% full filter (probably a little over 3 Tbsp, but not by
much), and brewed with the lid open and burner on 5.

## Review

I had admittedly low expectations for this coffee; all the coffee vendors back
at school were consistent in nothing if not flubbing their dark roasts. That
was probably a product of how long it just sat out in whatever unattended
carafe.

But cup was actually quite good. I was spared the odd, bitter tanginess I grew
used to from dark roasts at school, and instead found a rich, quintessentially
"coffee" flavor, no frills or distractions. As we speak, I'm taking my last few
sips from the mug, and the flavor holds (although, it is a little dusty down
here, probably from the fineness of the grounds).

My nose is a little stuffy today, so unfortunately I can't report too
authoritatively on the smell.

My past experience had led me to believe that I was really more of a medium
roast kind of guy, but this cup this morning might have changed my mind.
**7.7**/10.

## Thoughts for Tomorrow

I probably won't be back tomorrow, seeing as the process has stabilized. I
think this will actually be the new rhythm for the Coffee Log; I'll post
reviews of new beans and roasts as I find them. Also, this way, the feed will
be little less coffee-clogged and let some of the other geeky goodness shine
through.

Until next time.
