---
layout: post
title:  Coffee Log 06
tags:
  - coffee
---

In light of yesterday's difficulties, I made sure to be extra meticulous to get
everything right this morning. And I believe it payed off.

<!-- MORE -->

Today I filled the chamber up most of the way, giving the top of the pile of
grounds about a quarter inch to breath under the top chamber. I also brewed
with the lid open and the stove set to 5.

The latter of these parameters seems to have been responsible for today's
blazing brew time (relatively speaking): 4:22" to start dripping and 4:45" to
completion (though I really should have pulled the Express from the burner a
few moments earlier, since I got another explosive spurt of coffee at the very
end, which landed all over the stove).

## Review

Today's brew was a success. It's perhaps the first cup I'd choose again if I
could simply pick the exact flavor from a menu.

In spite of the mild aroma, the body still has the fullness that characterizes
this Arabica blend. What I feel distinguishes the flavor today from my past
brews is **balance**. The bitterness is only there if you look for it, and
finally the nutty, "coffee-y" flavors can take center stage. A firmly enjoyed
cup o' joe. **8**/10.

My guess is that at lower temps (read: longer brew times) the bitter oils from
the grounds had more time to seep up into the top chamber and darken the flavor
of the coffee. Not so today though, as the brew time clocked in well under half
of some previous observations (and this is just from bumping the burner up one
notch).

## Thoughts for Tomorrow

Just because we had success today doesn't mean we can stop tuning our brew! I'm
still looking to complete my exploration of temperature, so tomorrow, I'll
crank it up one more notch, from 5 to 6 on my gas range.

I'll continue to bump it up, one notch at a time, until scores start to decline
again, at which point I'll consider the temperature parameter fully explored.
At that point, I'll have to move on to more exotic tweaks, such as pre-heating
the water, top chamber, and even mug. I'm sure the internet will suggest a
bounty of options.

## Recap

To recap, we've (fully) explored the effects of the volume of grounds, and
whether or not the lid is open during brewing, and are currently investigating
how stove temperature affects flavor. With the burner setting fixed at 4, here
are the results of the finished investigations:

|             | Lid Closed  | Lid Open     |
|-------------|-------------|--------------|
| Under-full  | [5.9][log3] | [6.25][log2] |
| Almost full |             | **8**        |
| Full        | [5][log1]   | [6][log4]    |

Each of the above ratings links to its corresponding post (except this one, in
bold, since you're already here).

[log1]: {% post_url 2018-09-03-coffee-log-01 %}
[log2]: {% post_url 2018-09-04-coffee-log-02 %}
[log3]: {% post_url 2018-09-05-coffee-log-03 %}
[log4]: {% post_url 2018-09-06-coffee-log-04 %}
