---
layout: post
title:  Coffee Log 17
tags:
  - coffee
categories:
  - coffee-log
---

Relative to yesterday's revelation, today's cup of coffee wasn't anything to
call home about. If anything, it made me realize that I was, in fact, drinking
coffee-flavored tea all along. An interesting note about these sub-3 Tbsp brews
is how fast the top chamber fills once the coffee starts dripping (which is
also pretty fast). Today it only took 15 seconds for the top chamber to fill;
3:36" to 3:51".

<!-- MORE -->

At this speed, it also seems to be more prone to exploding early; I took the
Express of the burner before I stopped the clock and set it down in the sink
*just* in time to contain the spurting. I had the same experience yesterday.

## Review

After sipping some room-temperature tap water, I realized that I was (almost
certainly) right yesterday in suspecting the sweet notes were coming from the
tap. I don't mean to give the wrong impression -- it's not like I get sugar
water from the sink -- but there's a certain softness to this water that my
brain registers as sweet.

If nothing else, it smelled nice, and didn't taste bad. Perhaps most
importantly, it allowed me to see how overblown my reaction yesterday was. I
won't make coffee with this few grounds again. **5.5**/10.

## Thoughts for Tomorrow

Now that we've established a baseline for grounds volume (we want to see *at
least* 3 Tbsp) I feel comfortable continuing the temperature investigation for
the remainder of the bag of medium roast.

I already have [an entry][day7] for burner level 6, but that was before I was
measuring out my grounds. The best rating for a measured amount was 7.9,
awarded to my [day 8][day8] brew, which used 4 Tbsp of grounds. If I don't have
4 Tbsp left, then I'll just use whatever's in there.

[day7]: {% post_url 2018-09-09-coffee-log-07 %}
[day8]: {% post_url 2018-09-10-coffee-log-08 %}
