---
layout: post
title:  Coffee Log 10
tags:
  - coffee
categories:
  - coffee-log
---

Today I used 3.3 tablespoons of grounds. The rest of the parameters are still
fixed: burner at 5, lid open, T Joe's Arabica, etc. Time to drip was 4:16" and
time to finish was 4:46".

<!-- MORE -->

I do get the slight impression that these single-teaspoon increments might not
be enough to produce observably different flavor profiles...

## Review

I definitely got more flavor today than I bargained for. I thought the Express
might have trouble pushing all the water through the filter with so few
grounds, which I've seen before, and that I was going to end up with a watery
cup. Not so though, as I ended up with all the characteristic flavors of the
roast, they just weren't delivered in any particularly bold, exciting, or
notably delicious way.

The cup held this character all the way down; I didn't notice any deterioration
in the flavor or aftertaste as I got into the second half of the mug. If
anything, where in the past some brews have gotten bitter and tart for the
cooler second half, this one has only gotten more mild.

Minimal grounds dust at the bottom, decent, inoffensive aroma, yet nothing
terribly impressive or exciting. For me, the quality of this brew harkens back
to some of my initial logs, before discovering the wonder of burner setting 5.
**6.75**/10.

## Thoughts for Tomorrow

I feel a little conflicted about where I want to take this. On the one hand, it
would be good to know how low I really can go in terms of grounds volume, but
on the other, I have serious doubts about finding any hidden local maxima lower
in this particular axis; I am trying to find the *ideal* Express cup, not just
perform a casual, aimless grid search.

I may make the game-time call tomorrow morning to reverse this decision, but
I'm saying tentatively that I'm going to start heading back up the grounds
volume scale. Today I used 3.3 tablespoons, yesterday 3.5, so tomorrow I'll try
things out with 3.7 (~3 tablespoons, 2 teaspoons).
