---
layout: post
title:  Coffee Log 24
tags:
  - coffee
categories:
  - coffee-log
---

Good morning and welcome to the first October Edition of the Coffee Log. Right
to it then.

Today I made my cup with 4 Tbsp of grounds, just for the fun of it, with
everything else the same as always. Things were a little slow to get moving,
with the first drips coming down around 3:44", but I watched the chamber fill
with similar speed, finishing in just 4:01". This could have been due to
filling the bottom chamber up just slightly more than usual (I didn't bother
pouring any back out when I passed the mark).

<!-- MORE -->

## Review

I'm really enjoying this coffee, more than I have for many of my previous light
roast brews. Something about this concentration of coffee seems to accent the
lower notes that I found myself missing, relative to the medium roast.

What I really need is a side-by-side-by-side comparison between this config,
the 3.5 Tbsp config, and a medium roast; having to wait 24 hours between
comparisons is really tricky (though it does make it slightly easier to judge
each cup in its own right). It's going to be a **7.1**/10 from me today. It
feels like it's going to be harder to cross that bitterness line with the light
roast than was for the medium.

## Thoughts for Tomorrow

I'm feeling pretty casual in terms of how I use the rest of this light roast.
Maybe I'll alternate back to the 3.5 Tbsp brew and get a better comparison. I
also realized that pre-heating the top chamber is going to be a little tricky
(maybe tricky isn't the right word... cumbersome?) since the Express is my main
vessel for heating water. I'll have to use my frying pan to heat up a splash of
water to add to the top chamber.
