---
layout: post
title:  Coffee Log 04
tags:
  - coffee
---

To continue my experiment in the factors of bitterness, today I inverted day
2's brew: full filter compartment, lid-open brewing. (All the other factors,
like bean and grind, stove temperature, etc. have been controlled for).

Total time to coffee was about 8:36", and it took almost exactly one minute for
the top chamber to fill up. I'm glad I was there watching, because I pulled the
Express from the burner *just* before the little coffee explosion at the end of
the brewing.

<!-- MORE -->

## Review

The fuller filter compartment really makes a difference in how flavorful the
brew comes out; I feel like I'm really tasting that Arabica bean for the first
time this morning.

When I brought the mug up to my face, the aroma came to greet me from quite a
distance. It had that character I typically find to be unique to dark roasts,
that I can only describe (imprecisely, maybe even inaccurately) as fruity.
Again, I don't have all the vocabulary to really pin it down.

While the coffee was hot, it had a strong, full body, and a flavor which
matched the aroma. However -- and again, this I feel is something I usually
notice in dark roasts -- as it cooled, the mild nutty bitterness that I was
kind of enjoying somehow deteriorated into a concentrated tanginess (maybe this
is what I meant by "fruity" earlier) that I'm not so big a fan of.

Overall, pretty strong performance from the Moka Express today. While I'd rate
the initial quality of the brew a little higher, the bitter, tangy flavors I
was left with for the second half of my mug will drag the rating down today to
a **6**/10.

## Thoughts for Tomorrow

While I enjoyed the strong flavor that I first got out of this mornings brew,
there seems to be a high risk for ending up with something over-concentrated. I
filled the filter compartment pretty much to the top today, so I think I'll
back off on that a little in the future.

Since I'm now familiar with the effects of grounds volume and lid setting, I
want to move on and fiddle with other properties. Tomorrow, I'll modulate
temperature: I want to see how going from setting 4 to 5 or 6 affects brewing
time and final outcomes.
