---
layout: post
title:  Coffee Log 16
tags:
  - coffee
categories:
  - coffee-log
---

So I might be a crazy person, but I made my coffee today with half the amount
of grounds I've been using for the past several days (2 rounded Tbsp), and it
actually came out pretty well. It only took 3:24" to starting pouring out, and
3:49" to completely finish.

<!-- MORE -->

## Review

It came out a normal, dark color, and had a normal, dark smell. Maybe the real
difference is that I've ventured out of *espresso* territory, and back down
into regular coffee territory (though I'll admit, I don't really know what the
technical difference is).

The flavor was, of course, very mild, with nothing bold or exciting (per se) to
speak of. However, something entirely new happened today, which is that I was
finally able to notice some of the feint natural sweetness of the brew. I don't
know if it's from the water, or if I'm just so used to that stiff bitter brew
from the last few days, but there was definitely a little hint of something
sweet.

I probably undershot the mark a little and would prefer to use *a little* more
coffee moving forward, but it was a very interesting experience having my
assumptions about this side of the spectrum totally shattered (I thought I'd be
drinking coffee-flavored tea today). **7**/10.

## Thoughts for Tomorrow

Like I mentioned, I'd like to bump the strength up a bit, so tomorrow I'll try
2.7 Tbsp (2 Tbsp, 2 tspn). This should round out the flavor profile, as I'll
have logs for 2 Tbsp up through 4.7. Great timing too, because I'm just about
ready to crack open the new bag of light roast grounds!
