---
layout: post
title:  Coffee Log 08
tags:
  - coffee
categories:
  - coffee-log
---

Today is the first day of my new job, so I wanted start things off on the right
foot-- with a cup of coffee I knew I'd like.

<!-- MORE -->

That's why today, I redid my highest rated configuration so far, the 8/10 from
[day 6][day6]. Lid open, burner set to 5, and almost full filter. Today,
though, I measured out the grounds, and found that 4 tablespoons gets me to
what I've been calling "almost full" for the past several days.

Brew time today was 3:55" to drip, though I didn't check the clock to see when
it finished dripping because I was focused on containing the final sputters of
coffee.

[day6]: {% post_url 2018-09-08-coffee-log-06 %}

## Review

I'm pleased with the consistency of the brewing process: reusing those day 6
parameters seems to have delivered me a delicious day 6 cup. I am picking up a
little more bitterness though, even if just in the flavor an not the aroma. I'd
be curious what this cup would have been like with, say, 3 3/4 tablespoons
grounds instead of 4.

This cup was tasty and balanced all the way down, with minimal grounds dust at
the bottom (it hardly comes out as sludge with this configuration. That would
be another interesting effect to measure). However, maybe it's just nostalgia
for the first cup of coffee I really got excited about, but I feel like this
one just doesn't *quite* live up. **7.9**/10.

## Thoughts for Tomorrow

I'm going to postpone the completion of our temperature investigation in order
to settle the grounds volume issue. Now that I'm using a quantifiable measure,
we'll get a much clearer picture of the grounds volume's effect on the flavor
profile.
