---
layout: post
title:  Coffee Log 25
tags:
  - coffee
categories:
  - coffee-log
---

Welcome to the casual late morning/ early afternoon edition of the Coffee Log.
I had a wild time at work last night preparing a machine learning demo for my
company's booth at [*The Atlantic Festival*<i class="fa
fa-external-link"></i>][atlantic fest]{:target="_blank"}. As a result, I took
the morning off and had a nice slow start to the day.

[atlantic fest]: https://theatlanticfestival.com/

<!-- MORE -->

Let's get into it, shall we?

This morning, I eyeballed a pretty full filter, saw coffee at 2:51" and it was
ready to go at 3:01". It's also the first morning in a while that I missed the
explosion at the end and had a little cleanup to do (the freshly spilled joe
comes up pretty easily with a sponge).

## Review

I wish I'd measured my grounds so I could say for sure that this is the most
I've used with the light roast so far. But, since I didn't, I can only say I
think it is. My coffee today was, dark, bold, and bitter. I must say though
that no matter how concentrated a brew I put together with the light roast, the
aroma is never quite as *there* as it was for the medium roast.

I liked it. I would drink it again, but I'd probably choose something a little
more balanced first. **6.9**/10.

## Thoughts for Tomorrow

It might be time to do some digging online to try and find the next steps for
taking my brew up a notch. Like I said, I don't think preheating the top
chamber will do much for this setup, but I might try it eventually.
