---
layout: post
title:  KDD Daily Roundup 03
tags:
  - data science
categories:
  - KDD 25 Roundup
---

Welcome to the Wednesday edition of my KDD 25 Roundup. Yesterday was
all about timeseries data and real-time detection. Today has been a
nice change of pace: rather than watch paper presentations, I
attended a day-ish long tutorial session on [Databricks<i class="fa
fa-external-link"></i>][db-home]{:target="_blank"}.

[db-home]: https://databricks.com

<!-- MORE -->

## The Problem

There can be a considerable amount of overhead (organizationally and
mentally) involved in building data pipelines in a cloud environment.
There are practically infinite knobs to tune, in terms of tools
available, configurations, options, etc. That's a lot of decisions to
make when starting a data operation.

## The Solution

Databricks is a preconfigured data management, exploration, and
analysis tool, with a nice point-and-click self-service portal for
adding it to your existing cloud environment.

In short, you can add data to Databricks, then access it from the
couple of tools it exposes, largely based on Spark. I spent the most
time in the notebook environment writing Python code to test out some
pre-determined happy paths. It feels like a Jupyter notebook, but is
missing some of the nice convenience features (e.g. hotkey for
pulling up docstrings in a pop-up, though I understand they'll be
integrating Jupyter in the future).

## Assessment

From what I can tell, the biggest value-add of Databricks is the
super slick startup process; you can be up and running with a pretty
functional environment with a couple clicks and a few minutes. When
this environment is enough, Databricks is probably worth it. That
being said, I didn't get the impression that the platform is highly
customizable or extensible. This could impede adoption for
organizations with very specific needs, such as government entities
which would need to integrate with monitoring or compliance systems.

Overall, I think my luke-warm impression of Databricks could be
helped by spending more time on the platform and getting to know some
of its more advanced features. Hopefully these initial reactions of
mine can help you decide whether it's right for your organization or
not.
