---
layout: post
title:  Coffee Log 31
tags:
  - coffee
categories:
  - coffee-log
---

Today, on the Coffee Log, we'll be sitting down with the next entry
in the World Market Direct Trade Coffee Sampler: the *Hawaiian Kona
Blend.*

<!-- MORE -->

The box describes the Kona Blend as a simple coffee: a "medium roast
with a mild, sweet, and mellow body." The aroma seems to match this
simple profile; no fruit, spice, berries, or citrus to speak of, just
pure, unadulterated coffee scent. As with the [Moka Java][moka java],
the body is a little hazy, which supports my suspicion that it's more
due to the granularity World Market chose for the grind than to
anything about the particular coffee. Speaking of the body, I'll note
that it's a very nice color: a lighter, sort of auburn brown, verging
on reddish.

[moka java]: {% post_url 2020-01-25-coffee-log-30 %}

The flavor of this blend is pretty much exactly what was promised on
the tin. The first thing you'll notice taking a sip is that you
aren't noticing anything. I might go so far as to say that this cup
has such a quintessential coffee flavor &mdash; there are no complex
notes or subtleties to contemplate &mdash; that the only reaction you
*can* have is just pure, simple enjoyment. I talked about an
easy-to-down crowd-pleaser in the last log entry; this is it (though
I'm sure you'd rather savor this great cup than down it).

The Hawaiian Kona Blend is a simple brew that trusts in the
deliciousness of the humble coffee bean, letting the pure coffee
flavors shine without dressing them up in spices or lemon or
whatever. **9.5**/10, guaranteed hit among coffee lovers.
