---
layout: post
title:  Coffee Log 32
tags:
  - coffee
categories:
  - coffee-log
---

Good morning, and welcome to daylight savings time. To help us spring
forward today, we'll be looking at the next selection from the World
Market Direct Trade Coffee Sampler: the *Sumatran Mandheling*.

<!-- MORE -->

The Mandheling is a dark, semi-course grind, with a strong, punchy
aroma, even before it's brewed. The label reports it as a medium/
dark roast with "hints of earthiness and a full, syrupy body." The
brew comes up pretty dark &mdash; almost black &mdash; in contrast to
the more auburn or even red tint of the last couple samplers. The
aroma of the brewed cup, while it retains the characteristic
bitterness the un-brewed grounds, seems milder (though my nose is
just a little blocked this morning, so don't take my word for it).

I've noted in the [past][earthy] that I sometimes have trouble with
"earthy" as an adjective for food and drink. It's hard for me to put
my finger on precise description, so much like early 20th century
computer scientists' definition for "[algorithm<i class="fa
fa-external-link"></i>][alg]{:target="_blank"}," my definition is *I
know it when I see it.* And let me tell you, this is it.

[earthy]: {% post_url 2019-08-26-coffee-log-29 %}
[alg]: https://youtu.be/IOiZatlZtGU?t=231

The Mandheling has a pleasant bitterness that rests on the palette,
and a fullness (umami perhaps?) that seems to activate all the taste
buds. Hard to say if the earthiness is a result of these components
or something separate, but it's definitely there. Whether on its own
or with a little dessert, the Mandheling is a complex, bold brew
you're sure to enjoy. **9.5**/10.
